Add Gallery documentation to the contributing guide (#47)
posit-dev/connect-extensions: contributing.qmd

{{< include _template/connect-extension.qmd >}}
```

# Connect Gallery

> The Connect Gallery displays content that can be easily added to Posit Connect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Connect Gallery displays apps, dashboards, and reports that can be easily added to Posit Connect
```

Trying to see if using slightly more specific words than "content" here is helpful

servers.

This section covers how to ready your content for the gallery, adding it, and
updating it.

## Additional Requirements

### The `extension` section in `manifest.json`

Content in the gallery requires some additional details in the `manifest.json`
file to display in the gallery, install on Connect, and automatically
release using automation in this repository.

Below is an example of the additional details that need to be manually added
to the `manifest.json`:

```json {filename="manifest.json"} 
{
  ...
  "extension": {
    "name": "my-content-name",

>     "title": "My Content Name",

Author: I believe the Publisher project always set `name: ""`. The [API docs say "Default: ∅"](https://docs.posit.co/connect/api/#post-/v1/content) which isn't clear if it is not defaulted and required, or defaults to empty. The others have `type|null` with `Default: null` so that makes me think it is required.

    "description": "A lovely, detailed description of the content.",
    "homepage": "https://github.com/posit-dev/connect-extensions/tree/main/extensions/my-content-name",
    "version": "0.0.0"
  }
}
```

It is recommended to begin with `"version": "0.0.0"` to avoid triggering a
release during development of your content. When you are ready to release to
the Gallery check the [Adding content to the Connect Gallery](#adding-content-to-the-connect-gallery) section.

### Language version constraints

To ensure that content in the gallery is installable on as many Posit Connect
servers as possible we use the language version constraints feature to broaden
the language versions Connect can use for a piece of content.

All content in the gallery should include `requires` specifications for the
language(s) it utilizes.

Here is an example of what needs to be included in a `manifest.json`:

```json {filename="manifest.json"}
{
  ...
  "environment": {
    "python": {
      "requires": ">=3.8, <4"
    },
    "r": {

>       "requires": ">=4.2, <5"

Author: @Lytol and I discussed this when pairing to add this. We both agreed that the `>= , <` syntax was more understandable if the reader wasn't familiar with the `~=` syntax, but both would work and resolve the same.

I'm happy to change it. It would avoid thoughts like "Wait Python 4?"

    }
  },
  ...
}
```

## Adding content to the Connect Gallery

Once your content has the requirements above it is ready to be added to the
Connect Gallery.

The Connect Gallery uses GitHub Workflows to automate releases of new content
when pull requests in this repo merge into `main`.

To add content to the Connect Gallery, follow the steps below:

> ### Adding simple content

Author: The creation of simple content feels pretty straight forward, but I feel like the explanation for _what_ simple content is may not be sufficient. Looking for feedback here.

Reviewer 2: Maybe list examples of what "simple content" means in this context. Something like: Has no API keys, third party dependencies, requiring Node, and etc.

Author: > Has no API keys, third party dependencies, requiring Node, and etc

Simple content could include API keys, 3rd party dependencies, but content that require building Node are definitely an example of custom built content.

I left the explanation for now, but can improve it as we get questions.

::: {.callout-note}
If you can run
```bash
tar -czf my-extension-name.tar.gz ./extensions/my-extension-name
```
and the resulting TAR file can be published by uploading the bundle to Posit
Connect, then it is piece of simple content.
:::

To add simple content look for the [`simple-extension-changes` section in the `.github/workflows/extensions.yml`](https://github.com/posit-dev/connect-extensions/blob/main/.github/workflows/extensions.yml#L31)
file and add a new filter:

```yml
filters: |
  ...
  my-content-name: extensions/my-content-name/**
```

This will make any code changes to your content trigger a few things:

- lint: ensuring your content has everything it needs to be added to the
  gallery
- package: creating a TAR file of the content's directory to test in pull
  requests and to be released
- release: When the `version` in the `manifest.json` is incrased and merged to
  `main`, releases the content to users of Posit Connect

Lastly set the `version` in the `manifest.json` file to your initial release.

When the changes above are merged the first release will be kicked off, and
your content will be in the gallery. 🚀

> ### Adding custom built content

Author: The custom built content contains a lot of links to the github actions / workflows. I wonder if it would be easier to just link to the relevant examples, and rely on the comments rather than keeping these links updated + duplicating some of the information here.

Reviewer: I like this idea of using our examples (well commented) as the "this is how to do this thing"

run. At the bottom, "Artifacts" are available, and if your content changed
in the Pull Request then a `my-extension-name.tar.gz` file will be available.

It can be downloaded, and tested using the publish via bundle feature in Posit
Connect.

## Removing a release from the Connect Gallery

If released content needs to be reverted, or content removed entirely, follow
the steps below:

### Removing a single release

Open a pull request to remove the release: 

1. Remove the release from the content list in `extension.json`
    - If the removed release is the latest release, update the `latestVersion`
      field for that piece of content to the previous release
    - Versions are sorted in descending order, so the latest release should be
      the first element in the `versions` array
2. Revert the content's `version` in the `manifest.json` file to the previous
   release
    
Once the pull request is merged continue with the steps below:

1. Remove the associated release from the [GitHub Releases page](https://github.com/posit-dev/connect-extensions/releases).
2. Remove the associated tag from the [GitHub Tags page](https://github.com/posit-dev/connect-extensions/tags).

> ### Removing an entire piece of content

Reviewer 3: I originally expected "removing" to be deleting the content and code from the repo entirely. However, "removing" seems to be describing a scenario where the related code still exists in the repo, but the content is simply deleted from the resulting `extension.json` in order to cause it to not be made visible in the Connect Gallery.

Should we also document the scenario where the author wants to remove all releases and the content code? It will a little more involved as they will need to modify `extensions.yml` and possibly other workflows if it is of the complex content type.

Author: Yeah I wrote the removal sections specifically for how to address removal in terms of the Connect Gallery.

> Should we also document the scenario where the author wants to remove all releases and the content code?

I can add a short note about how removal of content's code will need to follow the instructions for removing content from the gallery and references in the workflows.

Author: Added note in https://github.com/posit-dev/connect-extensions/pull/47/commits/32d94e8a6fa183a91ae6ae01431ba3c09b2176bd
